---
layout: post
title: "Weekly Log - 06/13-102012"
date: "2012-10-13 22:18:48 +0530"
tags:
 - Debian
 - weeklylog
 - floss
 - life
---

Update for 06/10/2012
---------------------

Well I had not written the weekly work log for the last week that
is because the week was short (oh yeah thanks to all these bandhs
our week got fluctuated and to be frank the week was only 4 days
long) and second was my lazyness. Here goes the update
 * After a long discussion with [Aravinda](http://aravindavk.in) on
   "why productivity is reducing these days." We concluded the social
   network is eating up most of time. So decision was made and I closed
   all pinned tabs for Twitter Gmail Identi.ca and Friendica on my browser
 * After the above resolution I finished almost 4 chapters of *Moder Perl*
   within 2 hours!. Indeed Social networks kill the productivity.

Update for 13/10/2012
---------------------

I've really fallen in love with computerised bots, thanks to the wonderful
KGB bot :-). So majority of my work on this week is on bots.

#### Jabber Dictionary Redesign ####

After thinking for a while I decided to re-write the [dictionary bot](http://copyninja.info/2010/11/a-jabber-dictionary-bot-for-kannada.html)
which when release got an overwhelming response as see in the comments of
above link. Few reason for re-write

  1. Generalise the bot framework so single bot can handle multiple languages
  2. Improve the data collection on bot side
  3. Current code base was not very well organised and trying to add more feature it had become messy.
  4. Provide XEP support to help in data collections

Few changes which are already implemented include

   1. New code is now using *pyxmpp2* library instead of GPLed *xmppy* used by current 
      code.
   2. Implemented XEP-0071 extension to properly format the meaning display by the bot
   3. Current implementation was displaying all words in one set without distinguishing
      between adjectives,verbs proverbs etc. even though wiktionary displays meaning based
      on this. New implementation gives out meaning in same format as it is displayed on
      wiktionary.
      
Things remaining todo

   1. Separating wiktionary parsing logic from bot code by providing some sort of intermediate
      interface between bot and wiktionary parsers.
   2. Adding more language wiktionary parsers and teaching the bot to become multilingual :-)
   3. Integrating XEP-0004 (Data Forms) for taking the meaning input from user. Current code
      requires user to enter data in particular format

#### suckless-tools fix for Wheezy ####

*Jakub Wilk* suggested me to prepare a minimal version of suckless-tools for Wheezy which includes
a patch to the bug [#685611](http://bugs.debian.org/685611). And few minor changes which involve
taking over the package and fixes in copyright file other than above mentioned bug. Hopefully 
release-team will be okay with these changes. I'm waiting for the upload to file an unblock-request.

I did face a problem I was halfway through wit suckless-tools_39-1 when Jakub asked me about this
change and current repository was fresh one prepared for 39-1 and didn't have history for 38 version.
First I thought of preparing separate repository for 38 version which was not an correct option,
but I even couldn't play with current repository. So finally I renamed current version of repository
to suckless-tools-39.git on collab-maint and prepared fresh repository suckless-tools.git basing
it on 38-1 version. 

From 39 version suckless-tools will be following 3.0 (quilt) source format and will not be working
with git-buildpackage as the tool can't handle multi-tarball packages. Yes every tool involved in
the package will have separate tarball from 39.

#### More work on Bots ####

Well today I again worked on Jabber bot, but not the dictionary bot. This time its an SMS Gateway
bot for *Jonas Smedegard* and the coding was done in Perl. Thanks to jonas I finally could apply
what I learnt in Perl. Code may not be very elegant but it works :-).

And after hacking one full day in Perl now I'm not feeling very much interested to go back and 
hack on my own Python based dictionary bot :-). But I will anyway.

#### Misc ####

* fonts-kalapi has been uploaded to *unstable* by Kartik finally :-). Only sad part is he couldn't
  use the home grown dh-make-font for this purpose.
* Finally Kartik is here in Bangalore and I'm just waiting when I can meet him.
* I ordered a RaspberryPi once it comes some hacking will be done on boxer again :-)
* Watched couple of *Star Wars* movie :-) (Still have 4 left)
* Expendables 2 movie is in watch list after this post.

So that's it folks. Quite longish post hope you are not bored reading it :-). Well time for movie
C'ya all with next weeks log.


