---
layout: post
title: "Weekly Log - 01102012"
date: "2012-10-01 21:45:02 +0530"
tags:
- Debian
- weeklylog
---

Well this weeks log comes bit late as my week got extended till today ;-).
I had working day at office on Saturday and Sunday due to 2nd Quarter end
and instead today is declared as compensatory holiday and tomorrow any how
is [Gandhi Jayanti](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Gandhi_Jayanti). So here
it goes.

Debian Related
--------------

Most of my work this week was done for Debian-IN team

* Integrated the KGB bot for Debian-IN team repository. Thanks to *gregoa*
  *Tincho* and *dam* for extending helping hand in getting it configured
* Updated the *setup-repository* to install a proper post-receive hook when
  creating new repositories.
* Copied the *set-git-hook* from pkg-ruby-extras team and modified it slightly
  to install post-receive hook for KGB integration for already existing repository.
  With this script I fixed few of the packages to use KGB which I own. Waiting
  for Kartik to fix remaining repositories as he is the *DD* for our team :-)
* Configured my personal instance of KGB which now stands in Debian-IN's channel
  (#debian-in). But bot is named RAW (Research and Analysis Wing) equivalaent
  of KGB and CIA in India :-P
  
Well most of this weeks work involved KGB ;-)

Personal Works
--------------

* Attended the PyconIndia-2012 on Saturday, Got a NFC card :-) which I can't
  use as my phone is not NFC capable. Only handful of talks were nice rest were
  all newbie like talk which even lacked proper presentation skills hence didn't
  attend on second day. Looks like quality of conference in India is decreasing.
* Finally completed answering all questions on *Philosophy and Procedures - 1* part
  of NM process :-). Phew it took me more time than I expected. Waiting for my AM's
  comment. Hopefully I will get next bunch of questions soon :-)
  
Misc
----

Played *Cricket* after very long time (Guess after 10 long years). Well it was not
official match or anything it was just another *Gully Cricket*. After the match it
came to mind that I need regular physical workout :-P.

Well that's it Cya till next week :-)
