---
layout: post
title: "Weekly Log - 17/23 - 112012"
date: "2012-11-19 20:37:30 +0530"
tags:
- Debian
- floss
- weeklylog
- life
---

The last week was quite productive as I was on vacation and at home town but sadly I
couldn't complete this post so again merging the work with this week but this week ain't
much productive as I was tired from journey back and didn't get enough time to recover.
So here it goes.

Debian Related
--------------

* I did a little more fine tuning of friendica package to enable http://localhost/friendica
  on installation and shipped virtual host configuration for Apache and Nginx which user
  can simply copy to setup a proper friendica instance. I'm not sure if this is right to do
  or not but Drupal package does this but only it doesn't enable it during installation and
  leaves it up to user to create required symlink to enable http://localhost/drupal7. Well this
  is my first time in packaging webapp so I'm all open for suggestions
* Helped Tobias Diekershoff prepare and upload the friendica package to mentors and file RFS bug.
  We got bug number [#693504](http://bugs.debian.org/693504) and now we are looking for sponsors,
  if you are a DD reading this post and interested in federated social networking and can sponsor
  us it would be great :-)
* Started learning CDBS and converted the Kiwix package to CDBS. I'm glad that Jonas is helping me
  out when I'm struck some where. Also kiwix is now updated to latest version 0.9~rc2 and I need
  to do some more fine tuning before asking for upload from Jonas.
* I started helping Jonas to put up CDBS documentation. He suggested me to take over the documentation
  from duckcorp and then merge other documentation in CDBS git tree. As of now I only managed to
  separate out the chapters from docbook to markdown format. The conversion was done using *pandoc*
  but code formatting in docbook was not proper I guess so after conversion it needed some manual
  intervention in fixing and formatting code blocks. The repository for CDBS doc is [here](http://anonscm.debian.org/gitweb/?p=collab-maint/cdbs-doc.git;a=summary)
  and as of now doesn't contain any new things.
* Converted one more of my font package fonts-gubbi to CDBS format but I'm now facing a issue that
  CDBS is including docs inside the generated udeb which is not right, I already posted the question
  on how to handle this to *build-common-hackers* and waiting for Jonas to reply back.
* I claimed the ITP [#651600](http://bugs.debian.org/651600) on Roboto fonts from Android OS. After
  a short discussion with Fabian on pkg-fonts-devel I agreed to merge it with existing *fonts-droid* and
  renamed the source package to *fonts-android* which now builds *fonts-droid* and *fonts-roboto*. Package
  is ready but I'm still seeing if I can fix any bugs on *fonts-droid* before asking for a upload. 
* Wrote a simple script which was derived from droid fonts package from Fedora to get the android fonts
  from the upstream repository automatically. Enabled this in get-orig-source target for fonts-android.
  Since cloning a more than 600M repository is PITA I have a local copy of fonts-android and use it to
  create new release of fonts-android. Additionally I should say script is not well tested ;-)
* *suckless-tools* has entered into Debian Experimental thanks to Jakub Wilk for a very nice review of
  the package which went in a long thread of more than 50 mails in debian-mentors. The package itself 
  closed a shit load of bugs, but after upload I noticed there are still some pending bugs which I missed
  from adding to changelog. So I closed <strike>[#606148](http://bugs.debian.org/606148)</strike> and 
  <strike>[#689199](http://bugs.debian.org/689199)</strike>. Still there are 2 more bugs which seems
  like fixed in newer version but I need to confirm before closing them, thus making suckless-tools
  a bug free package.

Upstream Related
----------------

I raised a pull request [#8](https://github.com/aravindavk/Gubbi/pull/8) on Gubbi fixing the Makefile
to more organized and introducing xz compression in it. Additionally I removed distribution specific
stuffs from Makefile and made it generic.

That's all for the two weeks. This week there will be [foss.in](http://foss.in) and we will be having
some Debian specific mini conference, including some Debian basics to newbies and some bug squashing
if any :-). So more to report next week, till then Cya.
