---
layout: post
title: "CDBS Packaging : copyright file support"
date: "2013-02-11 15:27:49 +0530"
tags:
- Debian
- cdbs
- packaging
- manual
---

One of the thing CDBS provides is support for verifying / generating
*debian/copyright* file. This feature will be help full if new files
show up in newer releases. It can also be helpful to generate the
first version of copyright file. But don't blindly follow this
feature, you need to cross verify the things it generates.
 
To use this feature add the following line to your *debian/rules* file
first
 
 {% highlight make %}
include /usr/share/cdbs/1/rules/utils.mk 
 {% endhighlight %}

Now create a file called *debian/copyright_hints* using touch command

    touch debian/copyright_hints
    
Now run the following command to allow CDBS to do its magic and
generate a new file called *debian/copyright_newhints*

    DEB_MAINTAINER_MODE=1 fakeroot debian/rules build
    
As you see we set the variable `DEB_MAINTAINER_MODE` which means this
is feature to help the maintainer rather than targeted for automatic
builds. So if there is no new things added to the new release you
should see something like this in the build log.

    Scanning upstream source for new/changed copyright notices...

    
    licensecheck -c '.*' -r --copyright -i '^debian/(changelog|copyright(|_hints|_newhints))' -l '99999' * | /usr/lib/cdbs/licensecheck2dep5 > debian/co$
    yright_newhints
    19 combinations of copyright and licensing found.
    No new copyright notices found - assuming no news is good news...

In case there are new files added you should get output similar to below

    Scanning upstream source for new/changed copyright notices...
    
    licensecheck -c '.*' -r --copyright -i '^debian/(changelog|copyright(|_hints|_newhints))' -l '99999' * | /usr/lib/cdbs/licensecheck2dep5 > debian/co$
    yright_newhints
    0 combinations of copyright and licensing found.
    
    Format: http://www.debian.org/doc/packaging-manuals/…
    Upstream-Name: FIXME
    Upstream-Contact: FIXME
    Source: FIXME
    Disclaimer: Autogenerated by CDBS
    
    ...
    
    To fix the situation please do the following:
      1) Fully compare debian/copyright_hints with debian/copyright_newhints
      2) Update debian/copyright as needed
      3) Replace debian/copyright_hints with debian/copyright_newhints

So as the last 3 points says you need to compare your
*copyright_hints* and the newly generated file by CDBS
*copyright_newhints* for difference and update the debian/copyright as
required and replace the existing *debian/copyright_hints* with
*debian/copyright_newhints*.

Tips
----------

1. This feature can be used to generate the copyright file for the
   first time you need a copyright file with only debian/* copyright in
   it.
2. If you are using it to generate copyright file for the first time
   be sure to cross verify the things mentioned in the file than just
   blindly copy pasting. 
3. If there are binary files like images are involved in your project
   be sure to clean up those from your copyright_hints before trying to
   build the package. Because of too much of binary cruft in any files
   means dpkg-source will be angry at you :-).
   
Last but not the least, I know CDBS provides some really cool features
which we will explore with next few posts but always keep in mind this
quote by Jonas. (Of course don't ask me to prove that Jonas did say it
as there is no pgp signature of him with quote to verify ;-) )

> CDBS is tool to help packagers and does not involve any magic.

